# README
#**For the Ultrasound area:**
#Berrueta et al_Area measured by US (ultrasound) carrageenan inflammation 24-96h. The data is organized as follow: There are 6 columns, column A describe the code assigned to each individual animal. Column B represent treatment: 0=No stretch, 1= stretch. Column C refers to the time for the treatment: from 24h to 96h. Column D refers to the batch or group of samples.  Column E correspond to the weight of the tissue at the time of euthanasia in mg. Column F  represent the ultrasound area of the inflammatory lesion per each sample.

#**For the flow cytometry data**
**Neutrophils and macrophage subpopulation**. Analysis was performed using Flow cytometry. The data set is organized as follow:
#**Berrueta et al_neutrophils dynamics**: There are 9 columns, column A indicates the code assigned to each individual animal. Column B represent treatment: 0=No stretch, 1= stretch. Column C refers to the time for the treatment: from 24h to 96h. Column D refers to the batch or group of samples. Column E indicates the type of cell. Column F is the total cell count per each sample. Column G represent the percentage of live cells per sample. Column H describes the relative number of CD45+ cells (leukocytes). Column I describe the relative number of neutrophils. 


#**For the macrophages**: There are 8 columns, column A indicates the code assigned to each individual animal. Column B represent treatment: 0=No stretch, 1= stretch. Column C refers to the time for the treatment: from 48h to 96h. Column D refers to the batch or group of samples. Column E indicates the relative number (percentage-%)    of CD45+ cells (leukocytes). Column F describe the relative number (percentage-%)  of F4/80+ cells (macrophages) . Column G describe the relative number (percentage-%)  of M1 macrophages. Column H describes the relative number (percentage-%)  of M2 macrophages.

#**Single cell and bulk library preparation and sequencing**. Data set organization is as follow: For each of the cell populations: 

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17.cDC1_stretch.markers.cDC1_non-stretch.markers. classic dendritic cells 1 (cDC1): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17.cDC2_stretch.markers. cDC2_non-stretch.markers. classic dendritic cells 2 (cDC2):  The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17.EC_stretch.markers. EC_non-stretch.markers. Endothelial cells (EC):The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. FB _stretch.markers. FB _non-stretch.markers. Fibroblasts (FB): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. iDC _stretch.markers. iDC _non-stretch.markers. inflammatory dendritic cells (iDC): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. M1 _stretch.markers. M1 _non-stretch.markers. M1 macrophages (M1): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. M2c _stretch.markers. M2c _non-stretch.markers.  M2c macrophages (M2c): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. MC _stretch.markers. MC _non-stretch.markers. Mast cells (MC): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. Mo _stretch.markers. Mo _non-stretch.markers. Monocytes (Mo): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. Th1 _stretch.markers. Th1 _non-stretch.markers.  T helper cells 1 (Th1): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. Th2 _stretch.markers. Th2 _non-stretch.markers. T helper cells 2 (Th2): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

#All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. M2a _stretch.markers. M2a _non-stretch.markers. M2a macrophages (M2a): The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

All.integrated.minus9.minus16.minus17. M2b _stretch.markers. M2b _non-stretch.markers. M2b macrophages (M2b):  The data include 7 columns; column A include the total list of analyzed genes. Column B is the statistical significance p value, Column C represent the logarithmic of average expression or  log 2FC  per each gene. Column  D is the actual Fold change expression per each gene. Column E is the gene expression for the Stretch sample (pct.1). Column F is the gene expression for the No stretch sample (pct.2). Column G is the adjusted p value.

For the Lipidomic data (LC-MS/MS: Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry)
Berrueta et al Lipidomics data sharing 111723.  Data set was organized as follow: There are 5 columns describing the data: Column A describe the total  list of lipid mediators analyzed. Column B describe the average of each lipid mediator in No Stretch samples at 48h. Column C describe the average of each lipid mediator in  Stretch samples at 48h. Column D describe the average of each lipid mediator in No Stretch samples at 96h. Column E describe the average of each lipid mediator in  Stretch samples at 96h.

#**For the Lipidomic data (LC-MS/MS: Liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry)**

#Berrueta et al Lipidomics data sharing 111723.  Data set was organized as follow: There are 5 columns describing the data: Column A describe the total  list of lipid mediators analyzed. Column B describe the average of each lipid mediator in No Stretch samples at 48h. Column C describe the average of each lipid mediator in  Stretch samples at 48h. Column D describe the average of each lipid mediator in No Stretch samples at 96h. Column E describe the average of each lipid mediator in  Stretch samples at 96h.




